Person Detection in Video using Faster R-CNN and GStreamer
This Python script uses TensorFlow, OpenCV, and GStreamer to detect persons in a video file using a pre-trained Faster R-CNN model. Detected persons are annotated with bounding boxes and saved as individual frames.

Requirements
Python 3.x
TensorFlow 2.x
OpenCV (cv2)
GStreamer (gi library with Gst and GLib)
Installation
Python Dependencies:

Install TensorFlow: pip install tensorflow
Install OpenCV: pip install opencv-python
GStreamer:

Ensure GStreamer is installed on your system. Installation methods vary by platform (Linux, macOS).
Usage
Clone the Repository:

bash
Copy code
git clone https://github.com/anuvkd/person-detection
cd repository-directory
Download Pre-trained Model:

Download the Faster R-CNN model from TensorFlow Model Zoo or use your custom trained model.
Update the path in load_model() function (model_path variable).
Setup Video File:

Place your video file (person.mp4 or customize video_file variable) in the specified location.
Run the Script:

Execute the Python script:
bash
Copy code
python person_detection.py
Detected frames with annotated bounding boxes will be saved in the person_detection directory.
Script Overview
GStreamer Pipeline:

Reads the video file using filesrc and processes it with decodebin, videoconvert, and videoscale.
Converts frames to RGB format and passes them to appsink for processing.
Model Inference:

Uses a pre-trained Faster R-CNN model to detect persons in each frame.
Draws bounding boxes around detected persons based on detection scores.
Output:

Annotated frames are saved as PNG images in the person_detection directory.
Customization
Model and Video Source:
Modify load_model() to load your custom trained model.
Update video_file variable to point to your desired video file.
Notes
Performance:
Ensure sufficient system resources (CPU/GPU) for real-time processing depending on video resolution and model complexity.
Error Handling:
Basic error handling is implemented for GStreamer operations (Gst.FlowReturn.ERROR).
License
Include details about the license for your code if applicable.
